Ghe integration (#21929)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/github-integrations/github-enterprise-integration.mdx

This integration streamlines the onboarding process for users and teams, simplifies role management, and clarifies entity ownership mapping, reducing the setup configuration, time, and effort. Due to the restricted nature of GHE environments, integration is achieved via a local collector service deployed within your private network. This integration aims to enhance the management and visibility of [Catalogs](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/catalogs/catalogs) and [Scorecards](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/scorecards/getting-started) within New Relic. For more information, refer [Service Architecture Intelligence capability](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/getting-started).

**Prerequisites**

* Login to your GitHub Enterprise account you plan to integrate with New Relic.
* You must be the Organization Manager or Authentication Domain Manager.
* Docker environment to run the collector service within your GHE network.

> **Architecture overview**

Reviewer: Would it be better to show this as a diagram?

Data collection from your GHE environment uses a collector service deployed within your private network to circumvent enterprise firewalls.

- **Collector Service**: A Docker image provided by our team, deployed inside your GHE environment (within your VPN/firewall).
- **Data Flow**: The collector service pulls data from your GHE repositories and pushes it to our public data collection endpoint.
- **Communication**: Our backend cannot directly make API calls to your GHE service. All data is pushed from your environment by the collector service.

**To set up the GitHub Enterprise integration:**

1. **Create and configure a GitHub app**: In your GHE instance, navigate to **Settings → Developer Settings → GitHub Apps → New GitHub App**.
    

>     1. **Configure Permissions**: Set the specific permissions required for the app to perform real-time and initial data syncs. A separate document outlining the required permissions will be provided.

Reviewer: Provided? Wont it be on the Docs site? Why cant we link to it?

        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>`APP_ID`</td>
          <td>GitHub App</td>
          <td>The unique App ID generated when you created the GitHub App.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>`PRIVATE_KEY`</td>
          <td>GitHub App</td>
          <td>The content of the private key (`.pem`) file, converted to a Base64 string. We will provide the necessary conversion command.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>`EVENT_SECRET`</td>
          <td>GitHub App</td>
          <td>The custom Event Secret value you set when creating the GitHub App.</td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>

3. **Deploy the collector service**: The collector service is delivered as a Docker image. Deployment can be done in one of two ways:

    **Option A: Using Docker Compose (Recommended)**

    We will provide a sample Docker Compose file that automates the download and deployment of the service.

    1. Download the provided Docker Compose file.
    2. Configure the environment variables from step 2.
    3. Run the following command:
       ```bash
       docker-compose up -d
       ```

    **Option B: Direct Docker image run**

>     You can download the Docker image directly from our Docker App registry and run it using your organization's preferred CI/CD pipeline or deployment method.

Reviewer: Link to Docker app library?

4. **Access the New Relic UI**: 
    
    1. Once the collector service is running and the GitHub App is installed on your GHE organization(s), the corresponding GHE organizations will appear in the New Relic UI.

>     2. Click **First time sync** to start the initial data synchronization.

Reviewer: <reason>, <location>, <action>

* `check_run`
* `fork`
* `gollum`
* `issues`
* `label`
* `merge_queue_entry`
* `meta`
* `milestone`
* `public`
* `release`
* `repository_dispatch`
* `repository_ruleset`
* `security_and_analysis`
* `star`
* `status`
* `watch`
* `workflow_dispatch`
* `workflow_job`

<Callout variant="tip">
**Security best practice**: Only enable the minimum permissions required for your integration needs. This reduces security exposure and follows the principle of least privilege access.
</Callout>

### Set up webhooks

Configure the Webhook URL and create a custom Event Secret for secure communication:

* **Webhook URL**: Use the following format based on your collector service deployment:
  * For HTTP: `http://your-collector-host:8080/webhook`
  * For HTTPS: `https://your-collector-host:8443/webhook`

  **Example**: If your collector service is deployed at `collector.yourcompany.com`, the webhook URL would be:
  `https://collector.yourcompany.com:8443/webhook`

* **Event Secret**: Generate a secure random string (32+ characters) for webhook authentication. Save this value as you'll need it for the `GITHUB_APP_WEBHOOK_SECRET` environment variable.

### Generate and convert keys

> 1. Upon creation, the app will generate a unique App ID and a Private Key file (.pem format). Save these securely as they will be needed for the collector service configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Upon creation, the app generates a unique App ID and a Private Key file (.pem format). Save these securely as you need them for the collector service configuration.
```

<Callout variant="caution">
Never commit environment files containing secrets to version control. Use secure secret management practices in production.
</Callout>

3. Run the following command to start the service:

   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

### Option B: Direct Docker image run

You can download the Docker image directly from our [Docker Hub registry](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/newrelic/nr-ghe-collector/general) and run it using your organization's preferred CI/CD pipeline or deployment method.

**✓ Success indicators:**
* Collector service is running and accessible on the configured port
* Docker container logs show successful startup without errors
* Service responds to health checks (if configured)

</Step>

<Step>
## Install the GitHub App on organizations

After the collector service is running, you need to install the GitHub App on the specific organizations you want to integrate:

1. Navigate to your GitHub Enterprise instance.
2. Go to **Settings** → **Developer Settings** → **GitHub Apps**.
3. Find the GitHub App you created in step 1 and click on it.

> 4. Click **Install App** in the left sidebar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the left sidebar, click **Install App**.
```

* No authentication errors in the collector service logs

</Step>

<Step>
## Complete integration setup in New Relic UI

Once the collector service is running and the GitHub App is installed on your GHE organization(s), complete the integration setup as instructed in the New Relic UI:

1. The corresponding GHE organizations will appear in the New Relic UI.
2. Click **First time sync** to start the initial data synchronization.
3. *(Optional)* Click **On-demand sync** to manually sync the data.

   <Callout variant="tip" title="tip">
   You can manually synchronize the data once every 4 hours. The **On-demand sync** button remains disabled if sync has occurred within the previous 4 hours.
   </Callout>

4. After you view the Sync started message, click **Continue**. The **GitHub Enterprise Integration** screen displays the count of teams and repositories, refreshing every 5 seconds. Allow 15-30 minutes for the complete import of all data (timing depends on repository count).

### Viewing your data

On the **GitHub Enterprise integration** screen:

* Click **Go to Teams** to view the imported teams information on [Teams](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/teams/teams).

> * Click **Go to Repositories** to view the imported repositories information on [Catalogs](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/catalogs/catalogs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To view the imported repositories information on [Catalogs](/docs/service-architecture-intelligence/catalogs/catalogs), click **Go to Repositories**.
```
